# OREO: A Tool for Offline Run-time Monitoring and Fault-Error-Failure Chain Localization

This repository is a companion page for the following publication, submitted to the [Journal of Software: Testing, Verification and Reliability](https://onlinelibrary-wiley-com.vu-nl.idm.oclc.org/journal/10991689):
> Leonardo Scommegna, Benedetta Picano, Roberto Verdecchia and Enrico Vicario. 2023. Improving Reliability One Byte at a Time: Offline Run-time Monitoring and Fault-Error-Failure Chain Localization with OREO. Software Testing, Verification and Reliability. (Currently under review).

It contains all the material required for running the OREO tool and generate the timeline of the application under observation, including: 
installation steps, customization options and sample timelines extracted.

<!--
## How to cite us
The scientific article describing design, execution, and main results of this study is available [here](https://www.google.com).<br> 
If this study is helping your research, consider to cite it is as follows, thanks!

```
@article{,
  title={},
  author={},
  journal={},
  volume={},
  pages={},
  year={},
  publisher={}
}
```
-->

## Quick start

OREO is a CDI extension that extracts runtime information and generates dynamically the timeline abstraction from the software architecture under observation.
In order to run the tool you will need an application of your choice that you want to observe.
In particular, OREO can be integrated with applications developed in Java and is able to detect lifecycles and interactions of components managed by CDI or EJB both from Java EE and Jakarta EE.

In order to run the OREO tool, follow these steps:

### Getting started

1. Clone the repository 
   - `git clone https://github.com/LeonardoScommegna/oreo-tool.git`

2. Copy the directories `beanTimelineManager` and `timeLine` from `/oreo_code/src/main/java/` of this project to the source directory of the application you want to observe with OREO. If the application is managed with maven the default path is  `/src/main/java/`. 
3. Add the following dependencies in the `pom.xml` of the target application:
```
<dependency>
  	<groupId>javax.enterprise</groupId>
	<artifactId>cdi-api</artifactId>
	<version>2.0.SP1</version>
	<scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
 
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.jboss.weld</groupId>
	<artifactId>weld-core-impl</artifactId>
	<version>5.0.0.Final</version>
</dependency>
```
4. Register OREO as CDI extension for your application
    - To do this, it is sufficient to copy the directory `services` from the `oreo_code/src/main/resources/META-INF/` path of this repository to the `src/main/resources/META-INF/` path of the target application.
5. Re-build the target application.

#### Run OREO

1. Configure the filter. Namely [InstanceFilter.java](/oreo_code/src/main/java/beanTimelineManager/filter/InstanceFilter.java) 
    - In order to observe exclusively the instances of your interest, it is sufficient to update to the variable `PACKAGE_OF_INTEREST` inside the [InstanceFilter.java](/oreo_code/src/main/java/beanTimelineManager/filter/InstanceFilter.java) file to include the desired classes/packages.
2. Build the project and deploy on server
3. Use the application under observation normally
4. Once finished, the resulting timeline can be found in SERVER_ROOT/bin/log/

Sample Output Data
---------------
A sample of timeline output obtained using the [BooksComplete](https://github.com/Apress/Practical-JSF-Java-EE-8/tree/master/BooksComplete) open-source application is available [here](data/).

### Running OREO on Toy App

In order to provide an exemplary application, this repository includes Toy App, a simple web application.

You can find the source code at the path: `/toy_app_code/`

To build and run the project you will need Maven and an application server.
In particular, during the experiment we used Maven version 3.8.7 and WildFly version 26.1.0.Final as application server.

To launch the experiments with OREO, please follow the instructions outlined above.

## Repository Structure
This is the root directory of the repository. The directory is structured as follows:

    oreo-tool
     .
     |
     |--- oreo_code/                            Source code of OREO
     |
     |--- toy_app_code/                         Source code of Toy App
     |
     |--- data/                                 Sample timelines
            |
            |--- output/                        Sample raw timelines generated by the OREO tool
            |
            |--- Figure/                        Sample timelines represented graphically












